
Download and Setup PyCharm for Learning

In the coming lessons, we'll be using the PyCharm Integrated Development Environment to learn to code. It's a completely free piece of software and is used by professional Python developers across the globe. They also have a handy course template feature, which we'll be using for the beginner parts of the lessons from Day 1 to 15. So while you might have another favourite code editor, I only recommend to use PyCharm for this course.



Step 1

Download and install Python to your computer. Head over to the official Python website to download the latest version of Python for your computer system. Then complete the installation.

Make sure you tick the box to Add to PATH / Add to Environment Variables. You will also need tcl/tk later in the course, so a Custom install gives you access to all of these settings.

https://www.python.org/downloads/



Step 2

Download the Free Community Edition of PyCharm using the link below:

https://www.jetbrains.com/edu-products/download/#section=pycharm-edu



IMPORTANT: If you already have PyCharm, make sure you update to the latest version of PyCharm otherwise the steps below might not work!



Step 3

Once PyCharm installs successfully, you should see the welcome screen. Click on the Learn tab and click "Enable Access".


Step 4

Once all the required plugins install successfully. Close and Restart PyCharm.



Step 5

Head over to the link below and click "Open in PyCharm".

https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/25212-100-days-of-code--the-complete-python-pro-bootcamp?noRedirect=true







Step 6



Remember to sign the user agreement (or the projects won't open properly)






Step 7

It should take you directly to the course. If it does not work, you can also go to File -> Learn and Teach -> Browse Courses.






Next, scroll down to find the course: 100 Days of Code - The Complete Python Pro Bootcamp and click "Start". You can also search for it in the search course area.




Now you should have access to the beginner course (Day 1 - Day 15) on PyCharm. You will be guided through the lessons to go from Task to Task (you can see the task numbers on the right pane e.g. 1 - 6 for Day1).






NOTE: This course project covers the lessons for Day 1 to Day 15. After that, you will be creating your own projects in PyCharm (or your preferred IDE).
